# Advanced DOOM Launcher #

## Plugin features ##

 * An XML wiht metadata and launching instructions must be configured.
 * Support PrBoom+ and Chocolate Doom (and ZDoom?).
 * Generates fanart automatically from level structure.
   1) First approach will draw lines only.
   2) Second approach will draw floor textures to sectors.
 * Scans levels inside a PWAD and generates a JPG poster with this information.
 * PWAD information (for Doom, Doom2, list of levels) can be draw on a poster JPG instead of 
   using labels or tags. Launcher XML will have a <plot> tag to be filed with information from the
   README that comes with the PWAD.
 * Generic icons for IWADs, Doom MegaWADs, Doom II MegaWADs, Doom Levels and Doom II Levels.

## Main menu layout ##

IWAD      | Doom (standalone launcher)
IWAD      | Doom II (standalone launcher)
IWAD      | The Ultimate Doom (standalone launcher)
IWAD      | TNT Evilution (standalone launcher)
IWAD      | TNT Plutonia (standalone launcher)
IWAD      | No rest for the living (standalone launcher)
Directory | The Master Levels
Directory | [Filesystem browse ... ]
Directory | [Category browse ... ]
Directory | [MegaWADs ... ]
Directory | [Single level WADs ... ]
Directory | [Multilevel WADs ... ]

## File layout ##

```
~/Doom/doom.wad
~/Doom/doom2.wad
~/Doom/nerve.wad
~/Doom/plutonia.wad
~/Doom/tnt.wad
~/Doom/masterlevels/xxxx.wad
...
~/Doom/doom1-megawads/
~/Doom/doom2-megawads/
~/Doom/doom1-levels/
~/Doom/doom1-levels/simple.wad
~/Doom/doom1-levels/simple.txt
~/Doom/doom1-levels/complex_wad/complex_wad.wad
~/Doom/doom1-levels/complex_wad/complex_wad.deh
~/Doom/doom1-levels/complex_wad/complex_wad.txt
~/Doom/doom2-levels/
~/Doom/unsorted/
```

 1) MegaWADs/Level WADs can be placed on the root directory or in subdirectories. Scan is
    recursive.

## WAD info file ##
 
 1) Generated by ADL scanner so user can know what's in the WAD.
 2) example.wad -> example.nfo
 3) Genre/Category defines the kind of WAD. ADL should be able to detect the kind of engine required
    to launch the WAD.
    <iwad>   -> Doom 1, Doom 2, Hexen, ...
    <engine> -> Vanilla, NoLimits, Boom, ZDoom, etc.

 1) Edited by the user to put WAD metadata and launching information.
 3) Substitution tags:
   * $DoomApp$       -> path to doom port executable
   * $wad$           -> filename of the PWAD. Always basename, AML will complete the full path.
   * $Doom_IWAD$     -> path to Doom 1 IWAD
   * $Doom2_IWAD$    -> path to Doom 2 IWAD
   * $UDoom_IWAD$    -> path to Ultimate Doom IWAD
   * $Doom_BFG_IWAD$ -> path to Doom 1 BFG IWAD

```
<PWAD>
  <ADL_file>example.wad</file>
  <ADL_iwad>Doom 1</genre>
  <ADL_engine>NoLimits</genre>
  <ADL_num_levels>3</num_levels>
  <ADL_levels>E1M1, E2M2, ...</levels>
  <title>My WAD</title>
  <year>1995</year>
  <author></author>
  <plot></plot>
  <args>-iwad $DoomIWAD$ -file $wad$</args>
</PWAD>
```

## Kodi Python intepreter includes Pillow imaging library ##

> Changes to the python API for Kodi Krypton
>
> We've replaced the PIL module shipped with Kodi with Pillow.
> Pillow is fully backward compatible* with PIL, so this change should not cause any issues in your addon.

See http://forum.kodi.tv/showthread.php?tid=250936&pid=2179879#pid2179879

## Mediacenter friendly DOOM source ports ##

### Chocolate DOOM ###

#### Advantages and Disadvantages ####

 * Packaged in Debian and Ubuntu.

 * Configuration file stored in `~/.local/share/chocolate-doom/default.cfg` 
   and `~/.local/share/chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom.cfg`

 * Menu can be accesed with the joystick.

#### Compiling ####

 1) Dependencies in Debian: `autoconf`, `libsdl2-mixer-dev`, `libsdl2-net-dev`
 2) Run `autoreconf -fi` and then `./configure`
 3) Compile with `make`
 4) Executables are in `src/chocolate-doom` and `src/chocolate-doom-setup`

#### Configuration of the joystick ####

 1) Run `chocolate-doom-setup`

 2) ...

### PrBoom+ ###

#### Advantages and Disadvantages ####

 * Packaged in Debian and Ubuntu.

### GZDoom ###

#### Advantages and Disadvantages ####

 * Runs many ZDoom-exclusive WADs.

### Compiling ###

 1) Clone GZDoom: `git clone https://github.com/coelckers/gzdoom.git`
    
 2) Create build directory: `cd gzdoom; mkdir build`
 
 3) Generate makefiles: `cd gzdoom/build; cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..`

 4) Execute make: `make`

